1. Grease a 6×6 inches square pan with softened butter. 
You can also use 5 to 6 inches round pan.

2. In a sieve, add 1 cup whole wheat flour (120 grams) and ½ teaspoon baking powder. 
Keep the sieve on top of a mixing bowl or pan.

3. Sift both the dry ingredients. 
Also preheat oven at 180 degrees Celsius (356 degrees Fahrenheit) for 20 minutes.

4. Now add ½ cup sweetened condensed milk (125 ml).

5. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla extract or ½ teaspoon vanilla essence

6. Do not mix. Just keep aside.

7. In another pan, take 80 grams butter and ½ cup water.

8. Add 4 tablespoons sugar.

9. Keep the pan on stove top and on a low flame heat this mixture.

10. The butter will melt initially. Do stir occasionally.

11. Bring this mixture to a boil.

12. Once the mixture comes to a boil, then remove the pan and pour the entire boiling hot mixture into the flour mixture.

13. With a wired whisk, begin to mix lightly.

14. Mix with light pressure, so that over mixing does not happen. 
While mixing you will come to know if the batter is going to be thick or too thick. 
The batter in this recipe is of medium consistency – neither thick nor thin. 
Depending on the quality of flour, you may need to add less or more water. 
If the batter becomes thick, then do add ¼ to ⅓ cup more hot water. 
So do keep some hot water handy.

15. Mix to a smooth batter. 
If there are small tiny lumps, then let it be. Do not over mix.

16. Now pour the batter in the greased square pan.

17. Gently shake the pan or tap the sides.

18. Place the pan in a pre heated oven. 
Bake the wheat cake at 180 degrees Celsius (356 degrees Fahrenheit) for 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
In my oven it took about 1 hour to bake. Yes that long. 
Oven temperatures are not same everywhere, so while baking do keep a check. 
Also please do not open the oven door till ¾ of the cake is done.

19. Here’s the whole wheat cake after baking. 
The top should be golden and when you insert a tooth pick in the center of the cake, it should come out clean.

20. Let the wheat cake become warm or cool completely, before you serve it. 
In cooler climates, the cake can be kept at room temperature for 1 to 2 days.
Do store in a box. In warmer or hotter climates, refrigerate the cake. 
This wheat cake stays good for about a week in the fridge.


