1. First finely chop all the veggies and keep aside.
You can even shred or grate the veggies using a food processor. 
I have used carrots, french beans, spring onions, button, capsicum and cabbage

2. Boil enough water in a pot or pan with some salt and a few drops of oil.

3. Add the hakka noodles (200 grams).

4. Cook the hakka noodles according to the package instructions. 
The noodles have to be cooked till al dente or just about cooked.

5. Drain cooked noodles in a colander. 
Then rinse noodles with fresh water very well. 
This stops the cooking process and removes the starch.

6. Add ½ tablespoon toasted sesame oil.

7. Toss noodles well, so that the oil gets coated evenly on them. 
This gets rid of stickiness from them.

8. Heat 2 tablespoons sunflower oil (or any neutral tasting oil) in a frying pan or wok. 
On a medium-low to medium heat, first sauté the red chilies and garlic for about a minute.

9. Increase the heat a bit and then add the 3 to 4 small spring onions (finely chopped), 8 to 10 french beans (finely chopped). 
Stir fry for about 3 minutes.

(Pro Tip: For non-stick frying pans, keep the heat to medium and for cast iron or carbon steel pans or wok, 
use medium-high to high heat.)

10.1 small to medium carrot (finely chopped) and 1 teaspoon finely chopped 
celery and continue stir-frying.
You can also add ½ cup finely chopped cabbage and 1 small to medium capsicum at this step. 
For the hakka noodles video in the post, cabbage is added.

11. Stir fry for about 5 to 6 minutes till the edges of the veggies start to slightly brown. 
I like the veggies to be cooked more, than what is the norm usually for this recipe. 
You can cut down on the stir frying time, if you prefer half cooked or more crunchy veggies.

Add ½ tablespoon soy sauce and mix well.

13. Add the cooked noodles. 
Mix, keep on tossing and stir-fry noodles for 1 to 2 minutes.

14. Season with salt and crushed black pepper as per taste. 
Add ¼ teaspoon rice vinegar or white vinegar or rice wine.

15. Toss well again and stir fry for a minute. 
Switch off the flame and add 1 to 2 tablespoons spring onion greens and mix well. 
Or you can garnish with spring onions while serving.

16. Serve Hakka Noodles as it is or accompanied with an Indo Chinese dish like gobi manchurian or paneer 
manchurian or chilly manchurian.